Document how to extend the base theme (#22)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: source/docs/essentials/extend-the-theme.md

---
id: extend-the-theme
title: Extend the theme
---

## Understanding theme overrides

> Front-Commerce web application is a fully featured e-commerce universal React application

Reviewer: I'd add a link on the `universal` keyword explaining what this is about.

aimed at providing a sane base for your own theme.
Even though you could reuse pages and components individually in a totally different theme,
most of the time you might find easier and faster to start with the base theme and
iterate from there.

**Theme override is the mechanism allowing to extend, adapt, rewrite almost everything contained in the base theme.** It is what allows you to:

> - upgrade Front-Commerce and benefit from the latest component improvements,

Reviewer: I'd add `customize the base theme` as a first item. It's close to the `extension` part but since we don't really have any extensions yet...

- customize how an extension is displayed,
- or create a slightly different theme for the Black Friday in confidence!

> People having an understanding of [layout overrides in Magento](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/frontend-dev-guide/layouts/layout-override.html), [child themes in Wordpress](https://developer.wordpress.org/themes/advanced-topics/child-themes/) / [Prestashop](https://devdocs.prestashop.com/1.7/themes/reference/template-inheritance/parent-child-feature/), [templates override in Drupal](https://www.drupal.org/docs/8/theming/twig/working-with-twig-templates), [themes in CakePHP](https://book.cakephp.org/3.0/en/views/themes.html) or other similar implementations should easily understand this mechanism in Front-Commerce.

Reviewer: Would it make sense to talk about `template overrides in Magento 1` ?

Because if I understand the Magento2's doc correctly, it's only for the `layouts.xml`.

> People having an understanding of [layout overrides in Magento](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.3/frontend-dev-guide/layouts/layout-override.html), [child themes in Wordpress](https://developer.wordpress.org/themes/advanced-topics/child-themes/) / [Prestashop](https://devdocs.prestashop.com/1.7/themes/reference/template-inheritance/parent-child-feature/), [templates override in Drupal](https://www.drupal.org/docs/8/theming/twig/working-with-twig-templates), [themes in CakePHP](https://book.cakephp.org/3.0/en/views/themes.html) or other similar implementations should easily understand this mechanism in Front-Commerce.

Reviewer: I don't really know how to turn the phrase around, but I'm not a big fan of the current phrase because it tells people how they should feel.

Maybe something along those lines: "Having an understanding of ... will help you understand Front-Commerce's theme overrides because they all share the same spirit. But if you have no previous experience with these kind of features, let's see how it works!"

> Your own theme will be located in its own folder and will use by default components from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your own theme will be located in its own folder and will use default components from
```

parent theme(s) — at least from Front-Commerce base theme.
You would then copy the files you want to override in your theme folder by maintaining
an identical file structure.

> Your component will be used instead of the base one anywhere across the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your component will then be used instead of the one in your parent theme(s).
```

> Themes are part of a module’s web area. Hence you must follow theses steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This translates in those three steps:
```

There no mention of module web area bellow. I'd keep it for the explanation within the second point.

1. define the module in the base configuration file
2. copy the file (`js`, `scss` or `gql`) you want to override in the `theme` folder of your module
3. customize its content in your module directory

> ## Define the module in the base configuration file

Reviewer: I'd change this name by using something like:

```suggestion
## Configure your custom theme and the parent theme(s) used in your application
```

Because it would make more sense according to [L22](https://github.com/front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com/pull/22/files#diff-a821e827b1dd1b2089cc6ac3dfc6067bR22).

If you accept this suggestion, the title in the above list should be changed too.

Author: Thanks!
I’ll go with « Configure your custom theme and use it in your application » for now.

> First, we need to create a minimalist module with the following file structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we need to create a minimalist module that will contain your own theme by creating the following file structure:
```

```

> my-module

Reviewer: Wondering if it would make sense to mention that a module for now is supposed to be at the root of your application.

└── web
    └── theme
```

Then, we need to tell Front-Commerce that this module exists in your [`.frontcommerce.js`](#TODO) file. If the module has been created at the root of your project, it would look like this:

```diff
module.exports = {
  name: "Front Commerce",
  url: "http://www.front-commerce.test",
-  modules: [],
+  modules: ["./my-module"],
  serverModules: [
    // ...
  ]
};
```

> Restart the application.

Reviewer: Not sure if the point was to add a new line here, but if it was, there are spaces missing.

That’s it! You have successfully registered the module in your Front-Commerce application.

## Override a component

Let's add the description of a `Product` to a `ProductItem` as an example of overriding the base theme.

> The original file is: `node_modules/front-commerce/src/web/theme/modules/ProductView/ProductItem/ProductItem.js`

Reviewer: Should we add an "info" blockquote to redirect to the folder structure explanation if one want to find their one component?

1. copy it to: `my-module/web/theme/modules/ProductView/ProductItem/ProductItem.js`
2. add the description somewhere in your `ProductItem` with `{this.props.description}`.

> **However you will not see the description yet!**

Reviewer: I understand that we want to avoid unnecessary restarts when overriding `ProductItem` but people might try to edit the component by adding a static string and it won't update.

```suggestion
**But you are not done yet!**
```

This information is not included in the GraphQL fields fetched by the application in the base theme.
You will thus need to update the fragment related to `ProductItem`.

The original fragment file is collocated with the original component at: `node_modules/front-commerce/src/web/theme/modules/ProductView/ProductItem/ProductItemFragment.gql`

> 1. copy it to: `my-module/theme/molecules/Product/View/ProductItem/ProductItemFragment.gql`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. copy it to: `my-module/web/theme/modules/ProductView/ProductItem/ProductItemFragment.gql`
```
